Title: Software Engineer

Contact Information

phone: +263 777 085 017
email: tmotsi10@gmail.com
github: github.com/tapiwa-1
linkedin: Tapiwa Motsi

Key Skills

Languages
HTML/CSS/JS
PHP
C#
C/C++
Python

Databases
MySql
sqLite

Frameworks
Tailwind
Bootstrap
VueJs
NuxtJs
Laravel
CodeIgniter

Containers
Docker

Tools
git and github
AdobeXD
Adobe Photoshop
Adobe Premier
Microsoft Office Tools

Introduction
Hard-working listing software engineer with a flair for creating elegant solutions in the least amount of time.
As a fullstack developer, created SAS datasets of clinical data and developed macro programs to improve efficiency and quality of data management for Ministry of Local Government. Looking to use my software engineering skills to help boost ..............’ data management efficiency.
I have developed a strong understanding of software development principles and practices. I am passionate about creating user friendly and visually appealing interface that provide an exceptional user experience. I am also committed to staying up to date with the latest technology and trends in the industry to ensure that my skills remain Relevant and valuable.
I am excited to bring my skills and experience to a new opportunity and contribute to the success of a dynamic team.

Work Experience

Ministry of Local government and public works 

Software Developer	August 2022 – July 2023

Key Responsibilities

    • Developed full-stack web applications which processed, analyzed, and rendered data for traditional leaders visually.
    • Managed time-sensitive updates, including content changes and database upgrades.
    • Planned, wrote, and debugged web applications and software with complete accuracy.
    • Produce clean, efficient code based on specifications 
    • Integrate software components and third-party programs 
    • Verify and deploy programs and systems 
    • Troubleshoot, debug and upgrade existing software 
    • Gather and evaluate user feedback 
    • Recommend and execute improvements 
    • Create technical documentation for reference and reporting
      
Key Achievements
    • Completed Traditional Leaders System. A web based application designed to capture information about chiefs, villageheads and headmans in order to minimuze data reduntancy, data incosistency.

Education
Bachelor of Science Information Security and Assurance 		August 2020 to August 2024
Harare Institute of Technology , Harare, Zimbabwe
Information assurance is the practice of assuring information and managing risks related to the use, processing, storage, and transmission of information. Information assurance includes protection of the integrity, availability, authenticity, non-repudiation and confidentiality of user data

Relevant Coursework: Computer Architecture and Organization, Principles of Programming, Secure Coding, System Administration and Security, Visual Programming Concepts, Web Technology, Database Design and Security, Operating Systems, Operating Systems

Top Projects

1. Local Government Traditional Leaders Portal
Project developed when still working at Ministry of Local government that allows capturing and monitoring of personal information of Chiefs, Headmans and villageheads in order to minimize data redundancy and data inconsistency.
Aims: It allows me to test and participate my software engineering in a real world Project

2. Vacancy Mail Recreation
Personal Project l have build to replicate basic functionity of job seeking systems. It allowed employees to have employer account that will enable them to post the job ads whilst job seekers would create accounts upload their personal details and their skills. The systems allowed employees to query all job application, accepting whether the job seeker have the right skills that suits the job.
Aims: It allows me to be familiar with docker

3. Music Social Media
Personal Project l have build as a Social media app that allowed Musicians to upload Music , Music videos online in a way that their fans may like or dislike, up vote or down vote their Music. It also allowed Musicians to write and upload blog posts.
Aims: It allowed frontend part of the application build by javascript to interact with backend that l had build through application

4. Hit Clinic app
First official hit project we have worked on as a team in 2021 - 2022 that allowed medical practitioners at Harare Institute of Technology to have a virtual interacting with their patients.
Aims: It promoted team work between us and it helped me to kick start in my fullstack development journey.

5. Hit Quiz app
My very first and my favourite fullstack application that allowed lectures to set quiz applications and students will the answer the  quiz upon completions marks will be warded.
Aims: It allowed me to have deeper understanding with how backend Language (php) is then connected with database (MySql)

These are my top 5 best project but l have pushed my projects l have worked on to my github repositories.


